Add automatic instrumentation page to website docs (#4)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-docs: website_docs/automatic_instrumentation.md

---
Title: "Automatic Instrumentation"
Weight: 3
---

> Automatic instrumentation with Java uses a Java agent JAR that can be attached to any Java 8+ application. It dynamically injects bytecode to capture telemetry from many popular libraries and frameworks. It is the preferred way to capture telemetry data at the "edges" of an app or service, such as inbound requests, outbound HTTP calls, database calls, and so on. To instrument application code in your app or service, use [Manual Instrumentation](manual_instrumentation.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatic instrumentation with Java uses a Java agent JAR that can be attached to any Java 8+ application. It dynamically injects bytecode to capture telemetry from many popular libraries and frameworks. It can be used to capture telemetry data at the "edges" of an app or service, such as inbound requests, outbound HTTP calls, database calls, and so on. To instrument application code in your app or service, use [Manual Instrumentation](manual_instrumentation.md)
```

I guess java agent isn't supposed to be preferred over library instrumentation, they're two good options

## Setup

Download the [latest version](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/releases/).

The JAR file (`opentelemetry-javaagent.jar`) contains the agent and all automatic instrumentation packages.

Place the JAR in your preferred directory and launch it with your app:

```
java -javaagent:path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \
     -jar myapp.jar

> ```

Reviewer 2: I would love to see us centralize the knowledge about how to set JVM args for different application servers, etc, in the opentelemetry docs, since this is a common stumbling block for new users.

E.g. Splunk otel javaagent has https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-java/pull/472 (cc @theletterf), Microsoft otel javaagent has https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/java-standalone-arguments (that I hacked together based on https://github.com/glowroot/glowroot/wiki/Where-are-my-application-server's-JVM-args%3F).

Author: Interesting point. How do you feel about that being a follow-up issue? I could do it, though it might take a bit to test out several options and verify it all works.

Reviewer 2: > How do you feel about that being a follow-up issue?

oh yes, definitely 👍

Author: Done: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-docs/issues/5

## Configuring the agent

The agent is highly configurable.

One option is to pass configuration properties via the `D` flag. In this example a service name and zipkin exporter for traces are configured:

```
java -javaagent:path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \

>      -Dotel.resource.attributes=service.name=your-service-name \

Reviewer 2: (just since it's simpler, and matches the env var example below)
```suggestion
     -Dotel.service.name=your-service-name \
```

     -Dotel.traces.exporter=zipkin \
     -jar myapp.jar
```

You can also use environment variables to configure the agent:

```
OTEL_SERVICE_NAME=your-service-name \
OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER=zipkin \
java -javaagent:path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \
     -jar myapp.jar
```

You can also supply a Java properties file and load configuration values from there:

```
java -javaagent:path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \
     -Dotel.javaagent.configuration-file=path/to/properties/file.properties \
     -jar myapp.jar
```

or

```
OTEL_JAVAAGENT_CONFIGURATION_FILE=path/to/properties/file.properties \
java -javaagent:path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \
     -jar myapp.jar
```

To see the full range of configuration options, see [Agent Configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/docs/agent-config.md)

## Supported libraries, frameworks, application services, and JVMs

> Many popular components have supported automatic instrumentation. See [Supported libraries, frameworks, application services, and JVMs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/docs/supported-libraries.md) for the full list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many popular components support automatic instrumentation. See [Supported libraries, frameworks, application services, and JVMs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/docs/supported-libraries.md) for the full list.
```

> Many popular have supported automatic instrumentation. See [Supported libraries, frameworks, application services, and JVMs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/docs/supported-libraries.md) for the full list.

Reviewer 2: not sure best value for `X` 😄
```suggestion
Many popular X have supported automatic instrumentation. See [Supported libraries, frameworks, application services, and JVMs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/docs/supported-libraries.md) for the full list.
```

Author: Oh dear, I swear I wrote "Many popular components have supported automatic instrumentation", but I think a signal got lost between my head and my hands when typing it out!

## Troubleshooting

You can pass the `-Dotel.javaagent.debug=true` parameter to the agent to see debug logs. Note that these are quite verbose.

## Next steps

> After you have automatic instrumentation configured for your app or service, it is worthwhile to add [Manual Instrumentation](manual_instrumentation.md) to collect richer telemetry data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have automatic instrumentation configured for your app or service, you may want to add [Manual Instrumentation](manual_instrumentation.md) to collect custom telemetry data.
```

Simpler apps probably don't really need anything other than the javaagent, it's already worthwhile on its own
